Pairwise Interactions in Simulated and VAR-Synthetic Turbulence Time Series


## Requirements
* `numpy`
* `scipy`
* `sklearn`
* `statsmodels`
* `mpi4py`
* `pickle`
* `matplotlib`

## Data
Time series data of the turbulent channel flow at friction-based Reynolds number of 300 are available in [this link](https://github.com/simFlowDataLab/flow_database/tree/main/turbulenceTimeseries/chan300_1)

* The data includes `u`, the time series of the streamwise velocity averaged over the wall-parallel directions at probes located at different wall-normal coordinates `y`. The sampling times are in `t`. 
* There are, in total, 104377 time samples available. 
* There are 64 sampling points (with the wall located at $y=0$ and channel centerline at $y=1$). 


## Main codes 

### `main_interact_mpi.py`

This code computes linear and information-theoretic measures between pairs of time series within simulation and VAR-synthetic datasets. 

* To run the code, use `mpirun -np <#process> python -u main_interact_mpi.py`
* There are settings in the code between lines 33 and 67, with the most important ones listed below:
  - `iLocList`: Index of the probes at which time series are sampled (from 1 (adjacent to the wall) to 63 (channel center)). 
  - `iDiscard`: Number of samples to discard from the beginning of the data
  - `iSkip`: Down-sampling frequency of the original simulation time series data
  - `nRep`: Number of realizations of the VAR model to generate synthetic time series
  - `nPred`: Size of the synthetic time series to be generated by the VAR model
  - `pAR`: Order of the VAR model
  - `lagList`: List of the time lags at which MI and TE are estimated. The maximum of these measures is obtained over these lags.
  - `ncf`: Maximum lag up to which the ACF and CCF are computed.
  - `k_KSG`: Value of k in KNN-based MI/TE estimators.
  - `caseName`: Name of the folder within './outData/' in which the results are written. The results include two binary `pickle` files, containing the interaction measures for the simulation and VAR data. 


### `main_postprocess.py`

This code is used to post-process the `pickle` files produced by `main_interact_mpi.py`. 
The post-processing includes finding the mean and standard deviation of the interaction measures for multiple realizations of the VAR model. 

* In the settings, set the `caseName` to what was chosen in `main_interact_mpi.py`.

### `main_plotter.py`

This code contains a set of functions to plot the post-processed data. 

First, on Line 82 set the the `caseName` to what was chosen in `main_interact_mpi.py` and `main_postprocess.py.

Then, for instance, to make a contour plots from the interaction measures, use `single_imshow()`. To call this function from terminal, use `import -c 'main_plotter as X; X.single_imshow()`. <br>

There are multiple functions to call for create different plots. 
